Every cell is a tiny chemical factory. Feed it sugar, and
it has to decide where all that carbon should flow.
Think of its metabolism as a network of pipes.
Sugar enters here, and splits between building new cells
and making the product we care about.
The key rule is balance. At steady state nothing is allowed to
pile up: whatever flows into a junction must flow back out.
So the cell is really solving a routing puzzle: given a
fixed sugar supply, which split of the flow is best?
Flux Balance Analysis picks the routing that maximises our objective —
here, the precursor that feeds the rest of the toolkit.
No new chemistry is invented — it is simply
the best traffic plan on a fixed road network.
That single number sets the stage for everything downstream.